Throughout the lesson, the term gas and fees keeps coming
up and you finally just got an overview of what we're talking about.
You might be saying, "Joe,
why didn't you just explain this to me sooner?"
Well, maybe I could have,
but I didn't because I wanted you to be able to see the gas and fees
for yourself by making a transaction and viewing the results.
At this point, you've made those transactions,
so it will be easy to see what happens with the gas.
So now, go back to the transaction you made earlier,
create a new one, or just watch what I'm doing on screen.
What you'll see is that the difference in
each account isn't exactly equal to the amount you sent.
The sender has a little more taken out of their account.
That's because of the cost of gas.
The gas cost is always taken from the sender's address.
What you can do to verify this is take the amount
that's left in the sender's account and add the gas to it.
What you'll see is that this evens out and leaves you with what
should be the correct balance of the sender. So, that's it.
Every time you make a transaction on the Ethereum network,
you'll see that the account balance decreases more than exactly what you specified.
That's because of the cost of running the transaction on the network,
and you can verify the difference by adding
the total cost of gas back to the account balance that's remaining.
This gas cost is a big reason that using Ganache makes so much sense.
Otherwise, you could practice making transactions on
the main and test network with not much of a problem.
But since it cost gas to make each transaction,
you'll eventually drain your account of its funds.
In the test network, you need to go through the hassle of getting more test Ether,
and in the main account, you just lost a lot of money.
So, try making some transactions,
check out the gas costs,
and keep it in mind when you're making transactions in the future.